"<The Three Breakthroughs That Have finally unleashed ai on the world.pdf>."
	
"<基于GPU的现代并行优化算法.pdf>."
	
Groznik, V., et al. (2013). "Elicitation of neurological knowledge with argument-based machine learning." Artif Intell Med 57(2): 133-144.
	OBJECTIVE: The paper describes the use of expert's knowledge in practice and the efficiency of a recently developed technique called argument-based machine learning (ABML) in the knowledge elicitation process. We are developing a neurological decision support system to help the neurologists differentiate between three types of tremors: Parkinsonian, essential, and mixed tremor (comorbidity). The system is intended to act as a second opinion for the neurologists, and most importantly to help them reduce the number of patients in the "gray area" that require a very costly further examination (DaTSCAN). We strive to elicit comprehensible and medically meaningful knowledge in such a way that it does not come at the cost of diagnostic accuracy. MATERIALS AND METHODS: To alleviate the difficult problem of knowledge elicitation from data and domain experts, we used ABML. ABML guides the expert to explain critical special cases which cannot be handled automatically by machine learning. This very efficiently reduces the expert's workload, and combines expert's knowledge with learning data. 122 patients were enrolled into the study. RESULTS: The classification accuracy of the final model was 91%. Equally important, the initial and the final models were also evaluated for their comprehensibility by the neurologists. All 13 rules of the final model were deemed as appropriate to be able to support its decisions with good explanations. CONCLUSION: The paper demonstrates ABML's advantage in combining machine learning and expert knowledge. The accuracy of the system is very high with respect to the current state-of-the-art in clinical practice, and the system's knowledge base is assessed to be very consistent from a medical point of view. This opens up the possibility to use the system also as a teaching tool.

Holmes, J. H., et al. (2017). "Artificial Intelligence in Medicine AIME 2015." Artif Intell Med 81: 1-2.
	
Patel, V. L., et al. (2009). "The coming of age of artificial intelligence in medicine." Artif Intell Med 46(1): 5-17.
	This paper is based on a panel discussion held at the Artificial Intelligence in Medicine Europe (AIME) conference in Amsterdam, The Netherlands, in July 2007. It had been more than 15 years since Edward Shortliffe gave a talk at AIME in which he characterized artificial intelligence (AI) in medicine as being in its "adolescence" (Shortliffe EH. The adolescence of AI in medicine: will the field come of age in the '90s? Artificial Intelligence in Medicine 1993;5:93-106). In this article, the discussants reflect on medical AI research during the subsequent years and characterize the maturity and influence that has been achieved to date. Participants focus on their personal areas of expertise, ranging from clinical decision-making, reasoning under uncertainty, and knowledge representation to systems integration, translational bioinformatics, and cognitive issues in both the modeling of expertise and the creation of acceptable systems.

Peek, N., et al. (2015). "Thirty years of artificial intelligence in medicine (AIME) conferences: A review of research themes." Artif Intell Med 65(1): 61-73.
	BACKGROUND: Over the past 30 years, the international conference on Artificial Intelligence in MEdicine (AIME) has been organized at different venues across Europe every 2 years, establishing a forum for scientific exchange and creating an active research community. The Artificial Intelligence in Medicine journal has published theme issues with extended versions of selected AIME papers since 1998. OBJECTIVES: To review the history of AIME conferences, investigate its impact on the wider research field, and identify challenges for its future. METHODS: We analyzed a total of 122 session titles to create a taxonomy of research themes and topics. We classified all 734 AIME conference papers published between 1985 and 2013 with this taxonomy. We also analyzed the citations to these conference papers and to 55 special issue papers. RESULTS: We identified 30 research topics across 12 themes. AIME was dominated by knowledge engineering research in its first decade, while machine learning and data mining prevailed thereafter. Together these two themes have contributed about 51% of all papers. There have been eight AIME papers that were cited at least 10 times per year since their publication. CONCLUSIONS: There has been a major shift from knowledge-based to data-driven methods while the interest for other research themes such as uncertainty management, image and signal processing, and natural language processing has been stable since the early 1990s. AIME papers relating to guidelines and protocols are among the most highly cited.

Sacchi, L., et al. (2015). "From decision to shared-decision: Introducing patients' preferences into clinical decision analysis." Artif Intell Med 65(1): 19-28.
	OBJECTIVE: Taking into account patients' preferences has become an essential requirement in health decision-making. Even in evidence-based settings where directions are summarized into clinical practice guidelines, there might exist situations where it is important for the care provider to involve the patient in the decision. In this paper we propose a unified framework to promote the shift from a traditional, physician-centered, clinical decision process to a more personalized, patient-oriented shared decision-making (SDM) environment. METHODS: We present the theoretical, technological and architectural aspects of a framework that encapsulates decision models and instruments to elicit patients' preferences into a single tool, thus enabling physicians to exploit evidence-based medicine and shared decision-making in the same encounter. RESULTS: We show the implementation of the framework in a specific case study related to the prevention and management of the risk of thromboembolism in atrial fibrillation. We describe the underlying decision model and how this can be personalized according to patients' preferences. The application of the framework is tested through a pilot clinical evaluation study carried out on 20 patients at the Rehabilitation Cardiology Unit at the IRCCS Fondazione Salvatore Maugeri hospital (Pavia, Italy). The results point out the importance of running personalized decision models, which can substantially differ from models quantified with population coefficients. CONCLUSIONS: This study shows that the tool is potentially able to overcome some of the main barriers perceived by physicians in the adoption of SDM. In parallel, the development of the framework increases the involvement of patients in the process of care focusing on the centrality of individual patients.

Shaikhina, T. and N. A. Khovanova (2017). "Handling limited datasets with neural networks in medical applications: A small-data approach." Artif Intell Med 75: 51-63.
	MOTIVATION: Single-centre studies in medical domain are often characterised by limited samples due to the complexity and high costs of patient data collection. Machine learning methods for regression modelling of small datasets (less than 10 observations per predictor variable) remain scarce. Our work bridges this gap by developing a novel framework for application of artificial neural networks (NNs) for regression tasks involving small medical datasets. METHODS: In order to address the sporadic fluctuations and validation issues that appear in regression NNs trained on small datasets, the method of multiple runs and surrogate data analysis were proposed in this work. The approach was compared to the state-of-the-art ensemble NNs; the effect of dataset size on NN performance was also investigated. RESULTS: The proposed framework was applied for the prediction of compressive strength (CS) of femoral trabecular bone in patients suffering from severe osteoarthritis. The NN model was able to estimate the CS of osteoarthritic trabecular bone from its structural and biological properties with a standard error of 0.85MPa. When evaluated on independent test samples, the NN achieved accuracy of 98.3%, outperforming an ensemble NN model by 11%. We reproduce this result on CS data of another porous solid (concrete) and demonstrate that the proposed framework allows for an NN modelled with as few as 56 samples to generalise on 300 independent test samples with 86.5% accuracy, which is comparable to the performance of an NN developed with 18 times larger dataset (1030 samples). CONCLUSION: The significance of this work is two-fold: the practical application allows for non-destructive prediction of bone fracture risk, while the novel methodology extends beyond the task considered in this study and provides a general framework for application of regression NNs to medical problems characterised by limited dataset sizes.

Tucker, A., et al. (2017). "Reprint of "Updating Markov models to integrate cross-sectional and longitudinal studies"." Artif Intell Med 81: 33-40.
	Clinical trials are typically conducted over a population within a defined time period in order to illuminate certain characteristics of a health issue or disease process. Cross-sectional studies provide a snapshot of these disease processes over a large number of people but do not allow us to model the temporal nature of disease, which is essential for modelling detailed prognostic predictions. Longitudinal studies, on the other hand, are used to explore how these processes develop over time in a number of people but can be expensive and time-consuming, and many studies only cover a relatively small window within the disease process. This paper explores the application of intelligent data analysis techniques for building reliable models of disease progression from both cross-sectional and longitudinal studies. The aim is to learn disease 'trajectories' from cross-sectional data by building realistic trajectories from healthy patients to those with advanced disease. We focus on exploring whether we can 'calibrate' models learnt from these trajectories with real longitudinal data using Baum-Welch re-estimation so that the dynamic parameters reflect the true underlying processes more closely. We use Kullback-Leibler distance and Wilcoxon rank metrics to assess how calibration improves the models to better reflect the underlying dynamics.

Wang, J., et al. (2016). "A novel method to use fuzzy soft sets in decision making based on ambiguity measure and Dempster-Shafer theory of evidence: An application in medical diagnosis." Artif Intell Med 69: 1-11.
	OBJECTIVE: Recently, fuzzy soft sets-based decision making has attracted more and more interest. Although plenty of works have been done, they cannot provide the uncertainty or certainty of their results. To manage uncertainty is one of the most important and toughest tasks of decision making especially in medicine. In this study, we improve the performance of reducing uncertainty and raising the choice decision level in fuzzy soft set-based decision making. METHODS AND MATERIAL: We make use of two appropriate tools (ambiguity measure and Dempster-Shafer theory of evidence) to improve fuzzy soft set-based decision making. Our proposed approach consists of three procedures: primarily, the uncertainty degree of each parameter is obtained by using ambiguity measure; next, the suitable basic probability assignment with respect to each parameter (or evidence) is constructed based on the uncertainty degree of each parameter obtained in the first step; in the end, the classical Dempster's combination rule is applied to aggregate independent evidences into the collective evidence, by which the candidate alternatives are ranked and the best alternative will be obtained. RESULTS: We compare the results of our proposed method with the recent relative works. Through employing our presented approach, in Example 5, the belief measure of the uncertainty falls to 0.0051 from 0.0751; in Example 6, the belief measure of the uncertainty drops to 0.0086 from 0.0547; in Example 7, the belief measure of the uncertainty falls to 0.0847 from 0.1647; in application, the belief measure of the uncertainty drops 0.0001 from 0.0069. CONCLUSION: Three numerical examples and an application in medical diagnosis are provided to demonstrate adequately that, on the one hand, our proposed method is feasible and efficient; on the other hand, our proposed method can reduce uncertainty caused by people's subjective cognition and raise the choice decision level with the best performance.

姜兴岳, 耿道颖, 沈天真, 陈星荣, 叶晨洲, & 杨杰. (2004). 人工神经元网络鉴别星形胶质细胞瘤良恶性的初步研究. 中国医学计算机成像杂志, 10(4), 217-220. 

万鑫, & 易波. (2009). 模糊推理在疾病辅助诊断系统中的应用研究.

吴政新.基于统计分析技术的疾病智能辅助诊断系统的研究[D].东北大学,2005.DOI:10.7666/d.y853793.

刘叙华. (1989). 模糊逻辑与模糊推理. 长春: 吉林大学出版社.

使用决策树进行分类. from http://blog.csdn.net/gane_cheng/article/details/53897669

马红霞, 郭玉林, 王秋萍, 刘敏, 强永乾, 郭晓娟, . . . CHEN Qi-hang. (2008). 分类决策树辅助CT诊断孤立性肺结节的方法学研究. 中华放射学杂志, 42(1), 50-55.

邓杏娟, & 陈骥. (2008). 基于语音识别技术的失语症辅助诊断及康复治疗系统的研究.

赵林明. (1999). 多层前向人工神经网络. 郑州: 黄河水利出版社.

曾照芳 and 安琳 (2007). "人工智能技术在临床医疗诊断中的应用及发展." 现代医学仪器与应用(05): 22-25.
	本文对人工智能技术在临床医疗诊断应用中的发展情况作了回顾,并且对新崛起的人工智能神经网络技术在医学诊断系统中的应用作了概述。阐明了制约医学影像专家系统发展的主要原因是高级视觉系统本身的缺陷。最后对人工智能技术在医学影像诊断系统中的发展前景作了展望。

常崇旺 (2004). 人工神经网络模型诊断帕金森病的研究, 第四军医大学.
	研究背景：帕金森病是一种常见的神经功能性疾病，随着社会老龄化，帕金森病的发病率、患病率及致残率均呈现增高的趋势。现阶段由于帕金森的发病机理仍不很清楚，诊断帕金森病仍然依赖临床经验，但尸检显示临床误诊率很高。而当今计算机及人工智能技术的飞速发展和不断完善，其分支人工神经网络技术已被成功的应用于医学领域的某些方面，并取得较好的效果。将人工网络技术应用于医学临床诊断已成为一个新的研究热点，但在帕金森病的智能诊治方面还未见相关报道。 目的：本课题的目的是寻找一种智能、客观、准确地诊断帕金森病的新方法，验证人工神经网络技术与粗集理论相结合所构建的网络模型模拟医学专家诊断帕金森病的可行性。方法：通过讨论帕金森病的流行病学、病因学、诊断、临床分级等的研究进展，应用文献优选法和数据库处理技术构建模型诊断指标框架和信息采集管理程序；分析构建诊断模型涉及的关键技术——人工神经网络原理和粗集理论，并在深入分析帕金森病及临床诊断特点的基础上，构建以粗集理论规则为神经网络中间层函数的三层BP网络模型(59-30-1)；利用已建立的信息采集管理程序收集临床病历信息并转化为网络输入和输出结果格式；利用采集的信息运用BP学习算法对网络模型进行训练，调整模型的参量；最后，通过病历回顾方法，随机抽取临床病例检测诊断模型的诊断效果。结果：建立了包括一般情况、危险因素、病史、症状、体征、检验结果、 第四军医大学硕士学位论文 药物治疗情况七大类共59项特征指标的帕金森病网络诊断指标框 架;编制了诊断指标信息采集管理程序;网络训练误差指标0.03; 检测样本与专家诊断对照XZ=0.03，P>0 .975，网络诊断准确率 92.9%。结论:将人工神经网络技术与粗集理论相结合所构建的网 络模型应用于帕金森病的临床诊断具有可行性，该方法是一种很 有应用价值的帕金森病诊断方法。但是本研究对于复杂的病例未 作深入研究，并且所提取的临床特征也仅限于病历上的特征，这 些特征对于帕金森病的诊断来说，尚不能满足需要，需进一步深 入研究才可应用于临床实践。

陈再旺 and 宋蓓 (2004). 人工智能在医疗诊断系统中的应用. 广西计算机学会2004年学术年会, 中国南宁.
	本文介绍人工智能在医疗诊断系统中的应用。着重介绍了专家系统的组成,系统知识的获取及表示模式,系统的推理规则及冲突的消解方法,系统与用户的接口方式以及自学习功能的设计。

陈真诚, et al. (2002). "人工智能技术及其在医学诊断中的应用及发展." 生物医学工程学杂志(03): 505-509.
	本文对人工智能技术在常规医学及其医学诊断专家系统中的发展情况作了回顾 ,并对人工神经网络在医学诊断系统中的应用作了概述。阐明了在医学诊断系统中 ,主要的困难在于多种疾病的共存现象 ,即许多病人有着潜伏在自身内部的其它相关性疾病。而制约医学影像专家系统发展的主要原因是高级视觉系统本身的缺陷 ,即从医学扫描器上获得的图像数据可能是噪声和模糊的 ,从而增加了专家系统的复杂性。最后对人工智能技术在医学影像诊断系统中的发展前景作了展望

陈真诚, et al. (2001). "人工智能技术在医学影像专家系统中的应用及发展." 国外医学.生物医学工程分册(05): 201-206.
	本文对人工智能技术在常规医学及其医学影像专家系统中的发展情况作了回顾 ,阐明了在医学诊断系统中 ,主要困难在于多种疾病的同时并发 ,即在许多病人中存在着一种疾病的症状潜伏着多种其它疾病的症状的现象。而医学影像专家系统发展的困难在于高级视觉系统内在的不足 ,从医学扫描器上获得的数据可能是噪声和模糊的 ,从而增加了专家系统的复杂性。最后对人工智能技术在医学影像专家系统中的发展前景作了展望。

姜兴岳, et al. (2004). "人工神经元网络鉴别星形胶质细胞瘤良恶性的初步研究." 中国医学计算机成像杂志(04): 217-220.
	目的:基于磁共振影像特点 ,应用人工神经元网络建立计算机辅助诊断系统 ,研究其判断星形胶质细胞肿瘤良、恶性的可行性及其诊断效果。材料和方法:搜集280例星形胶质细胞肿瘤病例的MRI影像资料 ,其中良性169例 ,恶性111例。由放射科医生对MRI图像进行12方面的特征提取并记录。然后将其输入人工神经元网络 ,对网络训练 ,建立计算机辅助诊断系统 ,以数据库病例初步评价其诊断效果并与放射科专家比较其诊断准确性。结果:数据库病例测试表明人工神经元网络的诊断结果为 ,对于良性和恶性星形胶质细胞瘤的诊断准确率分别为92.1 %和94.3 %,特异性分别为93.6 %和89.9%诊断准确性接近放射科专家。结论:神经元网络可以用来进行星形胶质细胞瘤良、恶性的鉴别诊断。本研究建立的计算机辅助诊断系统对于提高良、恶性星形胶质细胞瘤鉴别诊断的准确性和医学影像学教学方面具有一定的实用价值。随着人工智能的快速发展 ,建立计算机辅助诊断系统帮助放射科医生提高诊断的准确性逐渐成为可能。

李凯述, et al. (2005). "人工智能专家系统在呼吸系统疾病中的应用." 国外医学(内科学分册)(12): 513-515+520.
	人工智能专家系统是在疾病诊断、治疗和预后判断等方面发挥重要作用的一门新的技术科学。本文对人工智能专家系统的概念、发展、组成、在呼吸系统疾病中的应用、存在问题等方面进行综述。

李异凡, et al. (2003). "神经网络方法在医学中的应用." 中国现代医学杂志(13): 8-11.
	随着计算机技术与人工智能技术的发展 ,人工神经网络已应用于各个领域的信息处理工作。医学中的许多复杂问题由于信息来源不完整又含假象等 ,给传统专家系统的应用造成极大困难 ,而神经网络技术能真实和科学地反映事物的本质。本文介绍了人工神经网络的工作原理及特点 ,显示了其在临床诊断、医学图像信号分析中的独特的优越性 ,也可详尽地解释和分析新药研制过程中的药效现象。

刘柏 and 曹晓东 (2004). "神经网络在肺部单发结节CT诊断中的应用." 电脑开发与应用(03): 28-29.
	神经网络是人工智能领域的重要组成部分 ,适合解决多参数的聚类分析等复杂问题。通过 CT影像判断肺部单发结节 (SPN)良恶性的方法是 :综合分析判断 SPN的形态、大小、密度等多个参数 ,进而得出最后诊断。神经网络的应用可使 SPN的 CT诊断更加全面和客观

卢有亮 and 傅彦 (2004). "基于互联网的远程医学图像智能诊断系统." 实验科学与技术(02): 14-16+29.
	本文内容涉及到知识库系统、分布式服务、知识学习、面向对象程序设计、图像分割、区域遍历、区域指标计算、网络传输以及远程数据库访问等领域。人工智能技术与数据库技术的完美结合,区域遍历算法和图像分割算法的合理选择与改进,是该技术从理论转变成实践的关键,而通过技术实施远程智能在线诊断所提供的便利性,进一步推动了该项目的应用。

邵虹, et al. (2003). "医疗诊断专家系统研究进展." 小型微型计算机系统(03): 509-512.
	专家系统是人工智能领域的重要分支 ,医疗诊断专家系统可以作为医生诊断的一种辅助工具 .本文从医疗诊断专家系统中的知识表示、推理机制等理论知识和实践研究两方面 ,对其研究现状进行了回顾

于跃海, et al. (2001). "基于案例推理的ICU应急诊断方案生成系统." 东南大学学报(自然科学版)(02): 27-30.
	依据应急诊断治疗的医学知识和实践经验 ,综合运用了案例推理、模糊推理、缺省推理等方法 ,建立了能迅速生成重症监护治疗方案的推理模型 ,对重症监护病房中的多种危险病症采取病因和病症相结合的诊断思路 ,实现了推理机的设计 ,建立案例推理、模糊推理、缺省推理相结合的ICU应急诊断方案生成原型系统 .该系统将人工智能技术和ICU医学知识相结合 ,为信息技术在生命科学中的应用做了有益的探讨 .

张露, et al. (2003). "多肿瘤标志物蛋白质芯片检测系统结合人工智能在肝癌诊断研究中的初步评价." 中国医药导刊(01): 35-37.
	目的:初步探讨多肿瘤标志物蛋白质芯片和人工智能诊断系统对于肿瘤诊断的应用价值。方法:用多肿瘤标志物蛋白质芯片诊断系统测定和人工智能SVM(支持向量机)软件分析50例肝癌患者,50例乙型肝炎患者和/或肝硬化患者及50份正常对照人群血清的12种常见的肿瘤标志物(AFP,CEA,NSE,CA125,CA153,CA242,CA19.9,PSA,free-PSA,Ferritin,β-HCG nd HGH)。结果:50例肝癌患者血清有46例血清肿瘤标志物为阳性(阳性率为92％),50例乙型肝炎和/或肝硬化患者血清中18例血清肿瘤标志物为阳性(阳性率为36％),50份正常对照血清中有2例血清出现肿瘤标志物(阳性率为4％)。实验还发现在部分肝癌患者血清中NSE、HGH、PSA和free-PSA也升高。结合SVM软件分析:无正常人被判断为肝癌患者,16％(8人)炎症患者被判断为肝癌,而肝癌的正确判断率为88％(44人)。结论:多肿瘤标志物蛋白质芯片诊断系统结合人工智能软件分析系统,能提高肿瘤标志物诊断肿瘤的准确度。

周玉 (2007). 模糊竞争神经网络在中医舌诊中的应用研究, 广东工业大学.
	随着中医国际化以及全球数字化信息的发展，对中医数字化、标准化的研究走上日程，为了促进中医的继承和发展，对四症客观化的要求日见迫切。舌诊是中医中最常用和最具有临床应用价值的诊法之一。随着图像处理、模式识别、人工智能等计算机技术的日益完善，舌诊的自动化成为新兴的研究内容，它可以避免以前的中医舌象诊断的非量化、不确定性等缺陷，有很高的理论研究与应用价值。本文的研究正是围绕这个方向展开，本文的目的就是为中医数字化做一些有意义的探索。 	医学诊断是医生根据病人的病史、症状等信息得出诊断结果的过程。如果医学诊断实现自动化，可以解决医学专家缺少、节约资金、减少病人的痛苦等问题以及保留珍贵的医学经验和资料，给人类带来很多好处。但是由于医疗诊断是一个复杂系统，很难用形式化表示，也就是说用一般的逻辑推理方法进行设计的效果并不令人满意，所以也就很难实现数字化和自动化。在中医舌诊诊断中尤其如此。 	医生诊断过程实质是由收集到的各种症状，通过分析获得诊断结果的过程。因而可以把这个过程看作是一个非线性映射过程，用神经网络来实现。人工神经网络模拟人脑的认知特点，通过对大量实例样本的学习、训练，从而掌握难以用解析形式表达的知识。由于神经网络具有分类、学习、记忆、联想、计算、容错、实时性等特性和功能，应用于诊断也是较为合适的。 	本文以中医舌诊为背景，提出了神经网络的模糊控制技术和竞争神经网络相结合的诊断方法。在该方法中，用神经网络实现模糊推理，用竞争神经网络实现诊断。该方法不仅具有模糊逻辑和神经网络两者的优点，而且竞争网络的应用使得系统有了在线学习的能力。 	作者在本论文中主要完成了以下两项工作： 	1、自组织竞争神经网络的应用。自组织竞争神经网络采用无监督的学习过程，它比有监督学习更接近生物神经系统，无监督学习按照预订的规则和输入模式，重复修改系统中各连接权值，直至形成一种全局有序的结构形态。自组织竞争神经网络通过对网络权值的调整，使所有矢量都在输入矢量空间相互隔离，形成了各自代表输入空间的一类模式，从而实现聚类功能。利用自组织竞争网络，对舌诊数据的聚类、识别分析进行了理论研究，并给出一个具体的仿真实验，通过实验说明竞争神经网络在中医舌诊应用中能够达到较好的分类识别的功能。 	2、模糊逻辑与神经网络技术的融合应用。模糊逻辑是一种处理非线性和不确定问题的有力工具，它比较适合表达模糊或定性的知识，但缺乏自学习和自适应能力。把神经网络学习机制引入到逻辑推理中，使传统的逻辑推理不仅具有逻辑思维及语言表达能力，而且具有自学习和联想能力。通过神经网络和模糊逻辑的融合技术，研究了一种新的中医诊断的方法，实现了专家诊断推理过程的模拟。通过实验表明该方法是有效和可行的，同时，该方法的应用，为医疗诊断过程提供了一种新的途径。

